1. Create User Account
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User doesn't have an account
Summary: User will go to the app and be prompted to login. User will click the "Create New Account"
Button and will be prompted to enter their name, email address, and password. The email address will
then be used as the username for the account. The user will submit the form. The form will be
validated to make sure all fields have been completed and will send the data to a SQL lite DB to be
saved and accessed later by the application.

2. Login
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User already has an account
Summary: User will go to the app and be prompted to enter login information. The user will then
enter their email address used to set up the account and their password and click the submit button.
The system will then find the user and validate the users username and password and return the users
homepage. If the use enters invalid data then the system will notify the user of wrong username/
password.

3. Delete Account
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User will be logged into the system
Summary: User will go to account summary page for his account. The user will click the delete account
button. The system will find the users account and display a confirmation to delete the account.
The user will then confirm to have the account deleted. The system will find the account in the
database and will delete the account. The system will then redirect the user to the app homepage. If
the system has any issues deleting the account then a notification will appear notifying the user.

4. Add Recipe
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User is logged in and is viewing the user homepage.
Summary: User click button to add a new recipe. User will be prompted to add a recipe name, serving
size, ingredietns, steps, prep-time, and cook time. The user will fill out the information and submit
the form. There will be a recipe created by the system.

5. Save recipe
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User is logged in and has entered information to create a recipe
Summary: User will click the "Save" button after completing the form for creating a new recipe. The
system will then validate the data in the form to make sure nothing has been left out and will
save the recipe to the database. The system will then return a notification letting the user know
that the recipe has been saved.

6. Edit Recipe
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User is logged in and has previously added a recipe
Summary: The user will click on a recipe and then request to edit the recipe. The system will find
the recipe in the database by ID and will return a windown the information that was submitted for the
recipe in it. The system will then allow the user to update the recipe. Once the user is finished
then the user will click "save" and the information will be saved and updated in the database.

7. Delete Recipe
Actors: User, System
Preconditions: User is logged in and has created and saved a recipe in the past
Summary: The user will click on a recipe and then request to remove the recipe. The system will find
the recipe in the database by ID and will return a windown the information that was submitted for the
recipe in it. The system will then ask the user if they wish to delete the recipe. Once the user is
finished confirms the delete then the user will click "delete" and the information will be deleted
and updated in the database.

8. Add recipe to favorites
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User is logged in and has previously created a recipe
Summary: User views recipe. User clicks checkbox to add recipe to favorites. System takes recipe and
puts recipe into favorites list.

9. Remove recipe from favorites
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User is logged in and has previously added a recipe to favorites
Summary: User goes to favorites list and finds recipe that needs to be removed. User unchecks
favorites box. The recipe is removed from the favorites list by the system.

10. Add Photo of recipe
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User is logged in and has created a recipe
Summary: User clicks button to add photo to recipe. User has the option of uploading a photo or just
selecting a photo from the users phone gallery. User takes a photo and the system displays a photo
confirmation screen. The user checks that the photo is correct and the system uploads the photo to
the recipe.

11. Delete a photo of recipe
Actors: User, System
PreConditions: User is logged in and has created a recipe and added a photo
Summary: User find recipe that has a photo that the user would like deleted. The user edits the
recipe. The user goes to the photo that was previously uploaded and clicks the remove photo button.
The system then removes the photo from the recipe.

12. Add Ingredient
Actors: User, System
Preconditions: User has created a new recipe and is logged in
Summary: The user clicks the add ingredient button to add ingredients to the recipe. The system will
display a search or add ingredient form where the user can select which ingredient to add, ingredient
and measurement. The user then clicks the save ingredient button and the ingredient is saved to the
recipe.

13. Add Step
Actors: User, System
Preconditions: User is logged in and a recipe has been created.
Summary:The user clicks the add step button to add a step to the recipe. The system will display a
text box where the user can input instructions for the recipe one step at a time. The user then clicks
the save step button and the step is saved to the recipe.

14. Edit Step
Actors: User, System
Preconditions: User is logged in and a recipe has been created.
Summary: The user clicks the edit step button to edit a step of the recipe. The system will display a
text box where the user can edit instructions for the step. The user then clicks the save step button
and the step is saved to the recipe.

15. Remove Step
Actors: User, System
Preconditions: User is logged in and a recipe has been created.
Summary: The user clicks the remove step button to remove a step from the recipe. The system will
confirm that the user wants this step removed. The user will select yes to confirm and the system
will delete the step from the recipe.

16. Remove Ingredient
Actors: User, System
Preconditions: User is logged in and a recipe has been created.
Summary: The user will click the remove ingredient button to remove an ingredient from the recipe.
The system will confirm that the user wants this ingredient removed. The user will select yes to
confirm removal of the ingredient and the system will delete the ingredient from the recipe.

17. Share Recipe with Friends
Actors: User, System
Preconditions: User is logged in and a recipe has been created.
Summary: Under each recipe is a share function. The user will select the button to share the recipe.
The system will then ask the user if he wishes to share on facebook or twitter. The user will then
select the option they want and the system will share the recipe to social media.